Slots V2 (#503)
github/view_component: docs/index.md

</div>
```

> #### Slots

Author: ```suggestion
#### Slots (experimental)
```

> _Slots now refer to V2 of the slot implementation, which is the successor to Slots V1 and Content Areas._

Author: TODO link to v1 docs

> Slots enable multiple blocks of content to be passed to a single ViewComponent.

Author: ```suggestion
Slots enable multiple blocks of content to be passed to a single ViewComponent, improving the ergonomics of complex components.
```

Slots enable multiple blocks of content to be passed to a single ViewComponent.

Slots expose two helper methods for defining slots, `renders_one` and `renders_many`.

`renders_one` allows you to define a slot that will be rendered at most once per component. e.g. `renders_one :header`

`renders_many` allows you to define a slot that can be rendered multiple times per-component. e.g. `renders_many :blog_posts`

#### Defining slots

Slots come in three forms:

- [Delegate slots](#delegate-slots) render other components.
- [Lambda slots](#lambda-slots) render strings or initialized components.
- [Pass through slots](#pass-through-slots)  pass content directly to another component.

##### Delegate slots

Delegate slots are simple slot definitions that delegate to another component.

`# blog_component.rb`

```ruby
class BlogComponent < ViewComponent::Base
  # Since `HeaderComponent` is nested inside of this component, we have to
  # reference it as a string instead of a class name.
  renders_one :header, "HeaderComponent"

  # `PostComponent` is defined in another file, so we can refer to it by class name.

>   renders_many :post, PostComponent

Author: ```suggestion
  renders_many :posts, PostComponent
```

</div>
```

#### Slots

_Slots now refer to V2 of the slot implementation, which is the successor to Slots V1 and Content Areas._

Slots enable multiple blocks of content to be passed to a single ViewComponent.

> Slots expose two helper methods for defining slots, `renders_one` and
> `renders_many`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Slots expose two helper methods for defining slots, `renders_one` and `renders_many`.
```

> `renders_one` allows you to define a slot that will be rendered at most once
> per component. e.g. `renders_one :header`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`renders_one` allows you to define a slot that will be rendered at most once per component. e.g. `renders_one :header`
```

> `renders_many` allows you to define a slot that can be rendered multiple times
> per-component. e.g. `renders_many :blog_posts`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`renders_many` allows you to define a slot that can be rendered multiple times per-component. e.g. `renders_many :blog_posts`
```

> #### Defining Slots

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Defining slots
```

> There's three logical varieties of slots:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Slots come in three forms:
```

> - [Delegate Slots](#delegate-slots) - Used to render other components.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Delegate slots](#delegate-slots) render other components.
```

> - [Lambda Slots](#lambda-slots) - Used to render strings or initialized components.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Lambda slots](#lambda-slots) render strings or initialized components.
```

> - [Pass through Slots](#pass-through-slots) - Used to pass content directly to a
>     component.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Pass through slots](#pass-through-slots)  pass content directly to another component.
```

> ##### Delegate Slots

Reviewer: ```suggestion
##### Delegate slots
```

Delegate slots are simple slot definitions that delegate to another component.

`# blog_component.rb`

```ruby
class BlogComponent < ViewComponent::Base

>   # `HeaderComponent` is nested inside of this component, we have to
>   # define it as a string instead of a class name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  # Since `HeaderComponent` is nested inside of this component, we have to
  # reference it as a string instead of a class name.
```

  renders_one :header, "HeaderComponent"

>   # `PostComponent` is defined in another file, so we can refer to it by class
>   # name without using a string.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  # `PostComponent` is defined in another file, so we can refer to it by class name.
```

>   renders_many :post, PostComponent

Reviewer: `post`, or `posts`?

Author: Should be `posts`, good catch

  class HeaderComponent < ViewComponent::Base
    attr_reader :title

    def initialize(title:)
    end
  end
end
```

`# blog_component.html.erb`

```erb
<div>
  <h1><%= header %></h1> <!-- render the header component -->

  <% posts.each do |post| %>
    <div class="blog-post-wrapper">
      <%= post %> <!-- render an individual post -->
    </div>
  <% end %>
</div>
```

`# index.html.erb`

```erb
<%= render BlogComponent.new do |c| %>
  <% c.header do %>
    <%= link_to "My Site", root_path %>
  <% end %>

  <%= c.post(title: "My blog post") do %>
    Really interesting stuff.
  <% end %>

  <%= c.post(title: "Another post!") do %>
    Blog every day.
  <% end %>
<% end %>
```

##### Labmda Slots

> Lambda slots render their return value on the page. This is useful for creating

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Lambda slots render their return value on the page. Lambda slots are useful for creating
```

> small slots via helpers like `content_tag` or using returning components with

Reviewer: ```suggestion
small slots via helpers like `content_tag` or using components with
```

parent-component specific default values.

```ruby
class Blogcomponent < ViewComponent::Base
  # Renders the returned string

>   renders_one :header, -> (title:) do

Reviewer: We should probably use `title` in this example.

    content_tag :h1 do

>       link_to "My Blog", root_path

Author: ```suggestion
      link_to title, root_path
```

    end
  end

>   # Returns a component that will be rendered in that slot with a default
>   # argument.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  # Returns a component that will be rendered in that slot with a default argument.
```

  renders_many :posts, -> (title:, classes:) do
    PostComponent.new(title: title, classes: "my-default-class " + classes)
  end
end
```

> ##### Pass Through Slots

Reviewer: GitHub style is to only capitalize the first letter:

```suggestion
##### Pass through slots
```

> Pass through slots simply render the content given the block.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Pass through slots capture content passed with a block.
```

> Pass through slots can be defined by omitting the second argument to
> `renders_one` and `renders_many`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Define a pass through slot by omitting the second argument to `renders_one` and `renders_many`:
```

> `# blog_component.rb`
> 
> ```ruby

Reviewer: IMO we should move to having the filename as a comment inside the main fenced block, for a cleaner look:

```suggestion
```ruby
# blog_component.rb
```

class BlogComponnt < ViewComponent::Base
  renders_one :header
end

> ```

Reviewer: Do we need an example of the component's template here?

I'm starting to wonder if we should have a standard way to present components in the docs, perhaps with the Ruby and Template files side-by-side in a two-column table?

`# index.html.erb`

```ruby
<div>
  <%= render BlogComponent.new do |c| %>
    <%= c.header do %>
      <%= link_to "My blog", root_path %>
    <% end %>
  <% end %>
</div>
```

##### Rendering Collections

> Slots defined with `renders_many` can be used to render a collection.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Collection slots (declared with `renders_many`) can also be passed a collection.
```

Reviewer: While we cover it in the section on delegate slots, I think we should explicitly document the single item setter (`c.link`) for collection slots somewhere.

</div>
```

> #### Slots

Author: This is a rough first draft of docs, feedback welcome!

</div>
```

#### Slots

> _Slots now refer to V2 of the slot implementation, which is the successor to Slots V1 and Content Areas._

Reviewer 2: Is it correct to assume that V2 is also subject to breaking changes? If so, it would be great if that could be noted here. 

Otherwise it's not clear to me when it would be a good time to adopt this API (or the whole gem for that matter). Personally, I'm still waiting for the slots API to settle so I can avoid unnecessary refactoring.

Author: > Is it correct to assume that V2 is also subject to breaking changes?

I don't believe so, unless some major issue with their design comes up.

> Otherwise it's not clear to me when it would be a good time to adopt this API (or the whole gem for that matter). Personally, I'm still waiting for the slots API to settle so I can avoid unnecessary refactoring.

I feel like view component has been pretty stable for a while now, with slots being marked as experimental.

Reviewer 2: Thats encouraging and reasonable. 😄 

I would like to chime in that if V2 is not experimental any more and it is the natural successor of content areas, then this whole `Slots` section should move up above the `Content Areas` section. And the `Content Areas` section should be marked as deprecated.

Maybe I'm missing something, but that's how it looks to me :)

Author: This was a good call out, I just marked v2 as experimental as well.

Slots enable multiple blocks of content to be passed to a single ViewComponent.

Slots expose two helper methods for defining slots, `renders_one` and
`renders_many`.

`renders_one` allows you to define a slot that will be rendered at most once

> per-page. e.g. `renders_one :header`

Reviewer 2: > at most once per-page

Just for clarity, I *could* render it twice if I wanted to? Or is it technically really not possible/intended? 

Or did you mean this?

```suggestion
per component. e.g. `renders_one :header`
```

Author: I definitely meant per-component 😄 

Although re-reading it, I think saying `can be defined at most once per-component render` might be more accurate/correct?

`renders_many` allows you to define a slot that can be rendered multiple times
per-component. e.g. `renders_many :blog_posts`

#### Defining Slots

There's three logical varieties of slots:

- [Delegate Slots](#delegate-slots) - Used to render other components.

> - [Lambda Slots](#lambda-slots) - Used to render strings or initialized
> - components.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [Lambda Slots](#lambda-slots) - Used to render strings or initialized components.
```

  <% c.header do %>
    <%= link_to "My Site", root_path %>
  <% end %>

  <%= c.post(title: "My blog post") do %>
    Really interesting stuff.
  <% end %>

  <%= c.post(title: "Another post!") do %>
    Blog every day.
  <% end %>
<% end %>
```

##### Labmda Slots

Lambda slots render their return value on the page. This is useful for creating
small slots via helpers like `content_tag` or using returning components with
parent-component specific default values.

```ruby
class Blogcomponent < ViewComponent::Base
  # Renders the returned string
  renders_one :header, -> (title:) do
    content_tag :h1 do
      link_to "My Blog", root_path
    end
  end

  # Returns a component that will be rendered in that slot with a default
  # argument.
  renders_many :posts, -> (title:, classes:) do
    PostComponent.new(title: title, classes: "my-default-class " + classes)
  end
end
```

##### Pass Through Slots

Pass through slots simply render the content given the block.

Pass through slots can be defined by omitting the second argument to
`renders_one` and `renders_many`.

`# blog_component.rb`

```ruby
class BlogComponnt < ViewComponent::Base
  renders_one :header
end
```

> `# blog_component.html.erb`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`# index.html.erb`
```
Right?

```ruby
<div>
  <%= render BlogComponent.new do |c| %>

>     <%= c.title do %>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    <%= c.header do %>
```
Right?

      <%= link_to "My blog", root_path %>
    <% end %>
  <% end %>
</div>
```

#### Slots V1 (deprecated)

_Slots V1 are now deprecated and will be removed in 3.0. Please migrate to [Slots V2](#slots)_

> Slots enable multiple blocks of content to be passed to a single ViewComponent, reducing the need for sub-components (e.g. ModalHeader, ModalBody).

Reviewer 2: Question: should this section really be in the main README in full length? Or could we move it to something like `UPGRADING_FROM_SLOTS_V1.md` to reduce confusion.

Author: Good question. I was thinking that it would make more sense as a separate docs file, but not sure how that would work with viewcomponent.org

#### Slots (experimental)

> _Slots now refer to V2 of the slot implementation, which is the successor to Slots V1 and Content Areas._

Author: ```suggestion
_Slots are currently under development as the successor to Content Areas. The Slot APIs should be considered unfinished (it's already in its second iteration, [see the original API](/slots-v1).) and subject to breaking changes in non-major releases of ViewComponent._
```

    </div>
  <% end %>
</div>
```

`# index.html.erb`

```erb
<%= render BlogComponent.new do |c| %>
  <% c.header do %>
    <%= link_to "My Site", root_path %>
  <% end %>

  <%= c.post(title: "My blog post") do %>
    Really interesting stuff.
  <% end %>

  <%= c.post(title: "Another post!") do %>
    Blog every day.
  <% end %>
<% end %>
```

##### Labmda Slots

Lambda slots render their return value on the page. Lambda slots are useful for creating
small slots via helpers like `content_tag` or using components with
parent-component specific default values.

```ruby
class Blogcomponent < ViewComponent::Base
  # Renders the returned string
  renders_one :header, -> (title:) do
    content_tag :h1 do
      link_to title, root_path
    end
  end

  # Returns a component that will be rendered in that slot with a default argument.
  renders_many :posts, -> (title:, classes:) do
    PostComponent.new(title: title, classes: "my-default-class " + classes)
  end
end
```

##### Pass through slots

Pass through slots capture content passed with a block.

Define a pass through slot by omitting the second argument to `renders_one` and `renders_many`:

```ruby
# blog_component.rb

> class BlogComponnt < ViewComponent::Base

Author: ```suggestion
class BlogComponent < ViewComponent::Base
```

#### Slots (experimental)

_Slots are currently under development as the successor to Content Areas. The Slot APIs should be considered unfinished (it's already in its second iteration, [see the original API](/slots-v1).) and subject to breaking changes in non-major releases of ViewComponent._

Slots enable multiple blocks of content to be passed to a single ViewComponent, improving the ergonomics of complex components.

> Slots expose two helper methods for defining slots, `renders_one` and `renders_many`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Slots are defined with with `renders_one` and `renders_many`:
```

> `renders_one` allows you to define a slot that will be rendered at most once per component. e.g. `renders_one :header`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`renders_one` defines a slot that will be rendered at most once per component: `renders_one :header`
```

> `renders_many` allows you to define a slot that can be rendered multiple times per-component. e.g. `renders_many :blog_posts`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`renders_many` defines a slot that can be rendered multiple times per-component: `renders_many :blog_posts`
```

#### Defining slots

Slots come in three forms:

- [Delegate slots](#delegate-slots) render other components.
- [Lambda slots](#lambda-slots) render strings or initialized components.
- [Pass through slots](#pass-through-slots)  pass content directly to another component.

##### Delegate slots

> Delegate slots are simple slot definitions that delegate to another component.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Delegate slots delegate to another component:
```

`# blog_component.rb`

```ruby
class BlogComponent < ViewComponent::Base
  # Since `HeaderComponent` is nested inside of this component, we have to
  # reference it as a string instead of a class name.
  renders_one :header, "HeaderComponent"

  # `PostComponent` is defined in another file, so we can refer to it by class name.
  renders_many :posts, PostComponent

  class HeaderComponent < ViewComponent::Base
    attr_reader :title

    def initialize(title:)
    end
  end
end
```

`# blog_component.html.erb`

```erb
<div>
  <h1><%= header %></h1> <!-- render the header component -->

  <% posts.each do |post| %>
    <div class="blog-post-wrapper">
      <%= post %> <!-- render an individual post -->
    </div>
  <% end %>
</div>
```

`# index.html.erb`

```erb
<%= render BlogComponent.new do |c| %>
  <% c.header do %>
    <%= link_to "My Site", root_path %>
  <% end %>

  <%= c.post(title: "My blog post") do %>
    Really interesting stuff.
  <% end %>

  <%= c.post(title: "Another post!") do %>
    Blog every day.
  <% end %>
<% end %>
```

##### Labmda Slots

> Lambda slots render their return value on the page. Lambda slots are useful for creating
> small slots via helpers like `content_tag` or using components with
> parent-component specific default values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Lambda slots render their return value. Lambda slots are useful for working with helpers like `content_tag` or as wrappers for another component with specific default values.
```
